# OEIS Processing

## License
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.

This directory contains all individual components and steps of our processing of the OEIS dataset,
or rather of the subset of the OEIS dataset that ended up included in the FACT Dataset (as closely explained in the appendix of the FACT paper).

A documentation of how each category is annotated can be found in our main paper (Appendix A).
To allow for extension of FACT we have defined an interfact `Annotator`. This allows for creation of new labels of OEIS sequences.
The annotator is typically used only for OEIS since the synthetic ones are generated by class types already.

## Annotator

In order to use the annotator, we assume that the OEIS dataset has already been downloaded.
You can find the downloaded dataset stored with the [ETH Research Collection](https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-b-000562705), or, alternatively, [here](https://1drv.ms/u/s!Ah0yjm0w0EzPuJJdflcIGeBR5zLJkg).

### Quick Run

1. Open a terminal equipped with a Python installation, enter `FACT/OEIS Processing`, and execute `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
2. Store the dataset in this subrepo (i.e. under FACT/OEIS Processing) and run
```
python3 Annotator/example_implementation.py
```
3. You should see dummy annotations stored in the repo under the names: `combined_results.csv` and `overview.csv`.

### Annotator interface
A quick example how annotator is used can be found here (pseudocode):
```
def main():
    my_list_of_classification_methods = [classification_method, classification_method_2, classification_method_3]

    my_Anotator = Anotator("my_example_category", my_list_of_classification_methods, aggregator)
    my_Anotator.run_and_save()
```
The Aggregator should return a single integer in the range [0,4] as described in the main paper.
The function "run_and_save" runs all classification methods on every sequence and saves the results from the aggregator in the files:
```
combined_results.csv
overview.csv
```
which are created when they do not already exist in the directory.

### Classification methods
As you can see in the previous example the user should specify `classification_method()` and use it in conjuction with Annotator.
An example for a classification can be:
```
def classification_method(data_dict):
    my_words = ["bli", "BLA", "blu"]
    return basic_word_search(data_dict, my_words, "comments", case_sensitve = True)
```
The above method checks whether the sequences contains the word bli, BLA or blu in comments column of the dataset.

#### Classification methods - detailed
Classification Methods can acccess the fields of the dataset via the dictionary "data_dict" by using the column names:
```python
            column_names = [
                "oeis_id",
                "identification",
                "value_list",
                "name",
                "comments",
                "detailed_references",
                "links",
                "formulas",
                "examples",
                "maple_programs",
                "mathematica_programs",
                "other_programs",
                "cross_references",
                "keywords",
                "offset_a",
                "offset_b",
                "author",
                "extensions_and_errors"]
```
For example the field "name" can be accessed via data_dict["name"]. Be careful to test for existance of every field you access. For example:
```python
            if data_dict["name"] is not None:
                #use data_dict["name"] here.
            else:
                #do not use data_dict["name"] here.
```
Classification Methods can return whatever desired. The aggregator receives a list that contains one entry per classification method. (i.e. what the aggreagtor receives as an input is:
```python
            result = [whatever_was_returned_from_classification_method_1,
                      whatever_was_returned_from_classification_method_2,
                      whatever_was_returned_from_classification_method_3,
                      ...
                      ]
            )
```
